System requirement

Step 1: Download Kafka.
wget https://archive.apache.org/dist/kafka/2.8.0/kafka_2.12-2.8.0.tgz

Step 2: Extract Kafka.

tar -xzf kafka_2.12-2.8.0.tgz

Step 3: Start MySQL server.
start_mysql

Step 4: Connect to the mysql server, using the command below. Make sure you use the password given to you when the MySQL server starts. Please make a note or record of the password because you will need it later.
mysql --host=127.0.0.1 --port=3306 --user=root --password='you will get password in command prompt'

Step 5: Create a database named tolldata.
mysql> create database tolldata;

Step 6: Create a table named livetolldata with the schema to store the data generated by the traffic simulator.

mysql> use tolldata;
mysql> create table livetolldata(timestamp datetime,vehicle_id int,vehicle_type char(15),toll_plaza_id smallint);


Step 7: Disconnect from MySQL server.
exit

Step 8: Install the python module kafka-python using the pip3 command.
pip3 install kafka-python

Step 8: Install the python module mysql-connector-python using the pip3 command.
pip3 install mysql-connector-python 

Task 2.1 - Start Zookeeper
go to kafka folder then run the command:  bin/kafka-server-start.sh config/server.properties 

Task 2.2 - Start Kafka server
go to kafka folder then run the command: 
bin/zookeeper-server-start.sh config/zookeeper.properties

Task 2.3 - Create a topic named toll
go to kafka folder then run the command: 
bin/kafka-topics.sh --create --topic toll ews --bootstrap-server localhost:9092


Task 2.6 - Run the Toll Traffic Simulator
python3 toll_traffic_generator.py


Task 2.8 - Run streaming_data_reader.py

python3 streaming_data_reader.py

Task 2.9 - Health check of the streaming data pipeline.

run the command to connect to mysql servers;
mysql --host=127.0.0.1 --port=3306 --user=root --password=enter the password
mysql> use tolldata
mysql> select * from livetolldata;
+---------------------+------------+--------------+---------------+
| timestamp           | vehicle_id | vehicle_type | toll_plaza_id |
+---------------------+------------+--------------+---------------+
| 2021-12-12 11:18:02 |    5858563 | car          |          4005 |
| 2021-12-12 11:18:02 |    2179891 | car          |          4010 |
| 2021-12-12 11:18:04 |    3789051 | car          |          4001 |
| 2021-12-12 11:18:04 |    1872645 | car          |          4005 |
| 2021-12-12 11:18:05 |    3331462 | car          |          4008 |
| 2021-12-12 11:18:07 |    9659075 | car          |          4010 |
| 2021-12-12 11:18:07 |    9492769 | car          |          4009 |
| 2021-12-12 11:18:08 |    8015017 | car          |          4010 |
| 2021-12-12 11:18:10 |    7009648 | car          |          4006 |
| 2021-12-12 11:18:10 |    1186143 | car          |          4004 |
| 2021-12-12 11:18:11 |    5867362 | car          |          4007 |

# Thank you